---
title: E1.31 (DMX) / Art-Net
hide:
  # - navigation
  # - toc
---

## E1.31

WLED supports the E1.31 (sACN) realtime light protocol.

!!! info "Version Info"
    **As of WLED v0.10.0, Art-Net is alternatively supported.** All information on this page applies for Art-Net as well.
    You will need to switch to Art-Net mode in Sync settings and reboot once.  

!!! info "Version Info"
    **As of WLED v0.11.0, DDP is alternatively supported.** Using DDP, the Multi RGB DMX mode is always used regardless of the DMX mode setting (as it is no DMX)
    You will need to switch to DDP mode in Sync settings and reboot once.  

!!! info "Version Info"
    **As > WLED 0.14.0-b1, DMX Effect mode channel mapping changed.** This is a breaking change in E131 sync behavior. Existing DMX setups using WLED Effect mode are likely to break. Solution: Adopt external DMX channel mappings according to the new Effect mode channel layout.  

### Features

* 170 LEDs (510 DMX channels) are supported per universe.
* You can use up to 9 adjacent universes which is a total of more than the maximum 1500 LEDs WLED can drive.
* E1.31 priority handling. [HTP](https://wiki.openlighting.org/index.php/HTP) for multiple senders with same priority is not implemented!

**Note:** WLED > 0.14.0-b1 implements a basic priority handling. To enable it set E1.31 port priority UI config > 0. Packages < config priority will always be skipped. Higher priority senders will overrule lower priority package senders (timeout 3 seconds). Non-zero start code and E1.31 preview data is ignored. 

**Note:** If you see issued with lag, you may see better performance if you disable Wi-Fi Multimedia (WMM) Mode QoS on your router

### General Recommendations

* For a fluent 25ms (40fps) or more framerate, it is recommended to use no more than 3 universes (510 LEDs).
* Using multiple E1.31 sources to control a single WLED controller will impact performance. If possible it's recommended to avoid this.
* Configure WLED to connect to [a WiFi Network](/features/settings#wifi-settings). It was observed that sending E1.31 from a computer to WLED when accessed as access point (WLED-AP) may not work, see [forum post](https://wled.discourse.group/t/sending-e1-31-when-in-ap-mode-may-not-work/407).
* When using an ESP32, disabling WiFi sleep in the WiFi settings of WLED can reduce/eliminate visual stuttering/lag of effects, and significantly reduce ping times. Note: disabling WiFi sleep will increase power consumption.

### Using LedFX

We highly recommend the [LedFx project](https://github.com/LedFx/LedFx) in combination with WLED!
Configure WLED first, ensure devices are powered on and connected to your WiFi.
To add WLED devices, in the 'Device Management', click on the Find WLED devices button.
If you want to manually add devices, use more than 170 LEDs with LedFx, you need to go to additional settings and set "Universe Size" to 510 when adding the WLED device!

## Settings

### DMX types

Select the mode you want to use in Sync settings.

#### Disabled

Incoming E1.31 packets will be ignored.

#### Single RGB

All LEDs are set to the same color. 3 Channels: Red, Green, Blue

#### Single DRGB

All LEDs are set to the same color. 4 Channels: Master Dimmer, Red, Green, Blue

#### Effect

Not a realtime mode & only supports 1 universe. Allows setting WLED effect properties over E1.31 with 15 channels.

| Channel | Property |
| --- | --- |
1 | Master Dimmer
2 | Effect mode ID
3 | Effect speed
4 | Effect intensity
5 | Effect palette ID
6 | Effect option
7 | Red Primary
8 | Green Primary
9 | Blue Primary
10 | Red Secondary
11 | Green Secondary
12 | Blue Secondary
13 | Red Tertiary
14 | Green Tertiary
15 | Blue Tertiary

<br>

Channel 2 Effect mode ID Breakdown

0. No Effect
1. Blink
2. Breathe
3. Wipe
4. Wipe Rnd
5. Random Colors
6. Sweep
7. Dynamic
8. Colorloop
9. Rainbow
10. Scan
11. Scan Dual
12. Fade
13. Theater
14. Theater Rainbow
15. Running
16. Saw
17. Twinkle
18. Dissolve
19. Dissolve Rnd
20. Sparkle
21. Sparkle Dark
22. Sparkle+
23. Strobe
24. Strobe Rainbow.
25. Strobe Mega
26. Blink Rainbow
27. Android
28. Chase
29. Chase Rnd
30. Chase Rainbow
31. Chase Flash
32. Chase Flash Rnd
33. Rainbow Runner
34. Colorful
35. Traffic Light
36. Sweep Rnd
37. Chase 2
38. Aurora
39. Stream
40. Scanner
41. Lighthouse
42. Fireworks
43. Rain
44. Tetrix
45. Fire Flicker
46. Gradient
47. Loading
48. Rolling Balls
49. Fairy
50. Two Dots
51. Fairy Twinkle
52. Running Dual
53. Running Dual
54. Chase 3
55. Tri Wipe
56. Tri Fade
57. Lighting
58. ICU
59. Multi Comet
60. Scanner Dual 
61. Stream 2 
62. Oscillate
63. Pride 2015
64. Juggle
65. Palette
66. Fire 2012
67. Colorwaves
68. BPM
69. Fill Noise
70. Noise 1
71. Noise 2 
72. Noise 3
73. Noise 4 
74. Color Twinkles
75. Lake
76. Meteor
77. Meteor Smooth
78. Railway
79. Ripple
80. Twinkle Fox
81. Twinkle Cat
82. Halloween Eyes
83. Solid Pattern
84. Solid Pattern Tri 
85. Spots
86. Spots Fade
87. Glitter
88. Candle
89. Fireworks Starburst
90. Fireworks 1D
91. Bouncing Balls
92. Sinelon
93. Sinelon Dual
94. Sinelon Rainbow
95. Popcorn
96. Drip 
97. Plasma
98. Percent
99. Ripple Rainbow
100. Heartbeat
101. Pacifica
102. Candle Multi
103. Solid Glitter
104. Sunrise
105. Phased
106. Twinkle Up
107. Noise Pal
108. Sine
109. Phased Noise
110. Flow
111. Chunchun
112. Dancing Shadows
113. Washing Machine
114. Washing Machine
115. Blends
116. TV Simulator
117. Dynamic Smooth

118 - 255. No Effect

<br>


The `effect option` channel is divided into 4 macro parts to control _mirror_ and _reverse_ states:

| value    | mirror   | reverse | |
|----------|----------|---------|-|
| 0..63    | false    | false   | **none** |
| 64..127  | false    | true    | **reverse** |
| 128..191 | true     | false   | **mirror** |
| 192..255 | true     | true    | **mirror & reverse** |

#### Effect + White

Same as `Effect` with additional whites = 18 channels.

| Channel | Property |
| --- | --- |
.. | ..
16 | White Primary
17 | White Secondary
18 | White Tertiary

#### Effect Segment

Same as `Effect` with 15 channels per segment; expect `channel 1 = "Segment Dimmer"`.

All effect segment modes introduce an additional `DMX segment spacing`. If spacing `s = 0` subsequent DMX addresses for all segments are created. When `s > 0` a gap of `s` DMX addresses between segments is used. To calculate segment DMX fixture addresses:

    Segment DMX Address (i) = DMXAddress + i * (dmxEffectChannels + s)

Where `DMXAddress` = start address as configured in UI, `dmxEffectChannels` = 15|18 depending on selected effect segment mode, `s` = address gap as configured in UI and `i` is the index id of each segment as existing.

Note: 1 DMX universe = max 512 DMX addresses. So max number of segments depends on start address, selected segment mode and configured DMX segment spacing. To calculate how many segments can be controlled:

    Max segments = floor[ (512 - DMXAddress) / (dmxEffectChannels + s) ]

#### Effect Segment + White

Same as `Effect Segment` including whites, so it uses 18 DMX channels per segment.

#### Multiple RGB

3 Channels per LED in sequence. LED 0 Red, LED 0 Green, LED 0 Blue, LED 1 Red, ...
Default mode, equivalent to pre-0.9.1 E1.31. This is the mode you want to use for xLights and LedFx.

#### Multiple RGBW

Like `Multiple RGB` + additional white channels.

#### Dimmer + Multi RGB

Like `Multiple RGB`, but the first channel is a brightness control.
Master Dimmer, LED 0 Red, LED 0 Green, ...

#### Preset

Trigger presets and control brightness. 2 Channels: Brightness, Preset ID
